---
date: 2013-4-17
published: true
slug: two-scoops-of-django-is-in-print
tags:
- python
- twoscoops
- book
- django
time_to_read: 3
title: Two Scoops of Django is in print!
---

Since I was a child I wanted to be a published author. I've dreamt of
people reading my book. While one could say that dream was fulfilled
when we launched the e-book version in January, it's not the same as
seeing the printed copy. Today I got to see my dream come true, a
printed
[book](https://www.amazon.com/Two-Scoops-Django-Best-Practices/dp/1481879707/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1366166104&sr=8-2&tag=ihpydanny-20)
is out there with my name on it.

Also, I have a confession to make. When it comes to technical books, I
really prefer the print version. For me, nothing beats being able to
flip through pages of a hardcopy next to a keyboard, or simply reading
while I'm on a bus, train, or plane. So this adds to my excitement when
I get to say that the book that [Audrey Roy](https://audrey.roygreenfeld.com/) and
I wrote together is in
[print](https://www.amazon.com/Two-Scoops-Django-Best-Practices/dp/1481879707/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1366166104&sr=8-2&tag=ihpydanny-20).

Note: As of April 17th it's only available in the US. However, it's in
the queue for being available for Amazon Europe. Enough people are
asking that we are also looking into getting it bulk shipped to [Django
Circus](https://djangocircus.com/).

While it's been an amazing journey, it's also been a long hard road.
Starting with a late night dinner with [Randall
Degges](https://rdegges.com), his wife
[Samantha](https://hardlyfunny.com), and [Sean
Bradley](https://bravoflix.com/), to spending hours upon hours writing
and revising, to taking painfully honest critiques from mentors, to
alpha launch, then rewriting the book followed by the beta launch. It
wasn't easy, but the growing volume of positive feedback and
suggestions from readers kept us going.

Between the Alpha and Beta releases we switched over to LaTeX. Audrey
taught it to me in February, and I'm proud to say I've progressed from
absolute neophyte to beginner. We chose it because of it's fine-grained
control over layout for the PDF and print versions. Creating the Kindle
and ePub versions from LaTeX was harder thanks to using LaTeX, but
everything's automated now so making updates is easy. Future editions
of this
[book](https://www.amazon.com/Two-Scoops-Django-Best-Practices/dp/1481879707/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1366166104&sr=8-2&tag=ihpydanny-20)
(1.6, 1.7, etc) or other technical books I hope to write will continue
to be in LaTeX, but if I publish fiction I'll probably go with
RestructuredText.

While working on the final version we were greatly saddened by the death
of Malcolm Tredennick, to whom the
[book](https://www.amazon.com/Two-Scoops-Django-Best-Practices/dp/1481879707/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1366166104&sr=8-2&tag=ihpydanny-20)
is dedicated. We miss him terribly. I've tried to write about
Malcolm's volume of his contribution to the
[book](https://www.amazon.com/Two-Scoops-Django-Best-Practices/dp/1481879707/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1366166104&sr=8-2&tag=ihpydanny-20),
but it's still too hard. For now, let's just say that he gave and
taught us so much and asked us for nothing in return, which is why we
continue to give free copies of the PDF edition of the
[book](https://www.amazon.com/Two-Scoops-Django-Best-Practices/dp/1481879707/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1366166104&sr=8-2&tag=ihpydanny-20)
to developers in need, as well as try to stay in contact with all
recipients of the free PDF.

In fact, if you are a developer in need, and can't afford a copy, drop
us a note at <2scoops@cartwheelweb.com> explaining your situation. Our
quick rule of thumb is that if you can afford to buy games for your
favorite device, then you can afford to buy our
[book](https://www.amazon.com/Two-Scoops-Django-Best-Practices/dp/1481879707/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1366166104&sr=8-2&tag=ihpydanny-20).
Also, please do your friends a favor and don't just give them a copy
without having them ask us. Why not? Well, **we update the book
frequently, and have a strong commitment for adding security related
content** even now that the final edition is out.

What now? Well, we aren't certain. We're maintaining a couple client
projects but aren't taking on new ones. We've got a couple projects
we're working on and I'm talking employment with a couple companies
who do good things for the community.
