---
date: 2012-12-31
tag:
  - holidays
  - resolutions
  - python
  - capoeira
  - family
  - friends
  - django

author: Daniel Roy Greenfeld
location: California
title: New Year's Resolutions for 2013
---

<div class="twelve wide column">
  <h1 class="ui block header">
    <div class="content">
      <a href="/2013-resolutions ">New Year's Resolutions for 2013</a>
    </div>
  </h1>
  <p>
    I'm one of those people who not only likes to make New Year's Resolutions, I
    like to blog about them.
  </p>
  <h1 id="resolutions">Resolutions</h1>
  <ul>
    <li>
      Go to at least one technical conference in South America, Asia, Africa,
      and Australia.
    </li>
    <li>
      Visit at least one new nation. It's hard to come up with preferences since
      the whole world is so exciting.
    </li>
    <li>Take a road trip across the USA.</li>
    <li>See the Grand Canyon.</li>
    <li>Keep to a 32 waist for the whole year.</li>
    <li>Blog once a week. That is at least 52 blog entries!</li>
    <li>Take a fun class with Audrey.</li>
    <li>Build something real using Twisted as a critical component.</li>
    <li>
      Take a high level Python class from the likes of Raymond Hettinger or
      David Beazley.
    </li>
    <li>Commit to core Python</li>
    <li>Upload all my outstanding pictures to Flickr!</li>
    <li>Pull off an Aú sem Mão (no-handed cartwheel).</li>
    <li>Attend my first Capoeira Batizado (formal gathering).</li>
    <li>Work out at least three times a week.</li>
    <li>Learn how to surf or snowboard.</li>
    <li>
      Have a beer with Thomas, Andy, Andy, Tony, Garrick, Bernd, and the rest of
      Ye Aulde Gange.
    </li>
    <li>
      See my old DC area friends such as Eric, Chris, Steve, Beth, Sarah, Daye,
      Renee, Kenneth, Leslie, Whitney, Dave, and many others.
    </li>
  </ul>
  <h1 id="accomplished">Accomplished</h1>
  <ul>
    <li>Teach some Python or Django.</li>
    <li>Go back to at least one of the nations I've visited before.</li>
    <li>Visit at least one new nation.</li>
    <li>
      Go to at least one technical conference in North America and Europe.
    </li>
    <li>
      Publish as least one book. See
      <a href="http://django.2scoops.org/" target="_blank"
        >Two Scoops of Django</a
      >
    </li>
    <li>Update my blog to Pelican 3.</li>
    <li>Implement a custom theme design so my blog looks more unique. ;-)</li>
    <li>Visit a beach for more than one day. (Split, Croatia)</li>
    <li>Get married</li>
    <li>Visit friends and family back east.</li>
  </ul>
  </div>
