---
date: 2013-09-09
tag: 
  - europe
  - travel
  - travel tips for geeks
  - family
  - friends
  - audrey

author: Daniel Roy Greenfeld
location: California
title: Dynov 2013 Part I
---
<div class="twelve wide column">

<h1 class="ui block header">
<div class="content">
<a href="/dynow-2013-part-i.html">Dynov 2013 Part I</a>
</div>
</h1>
<p><strong>note</strong>: This is the first part in a series about a family research
trip to Dynów, Poland in May 2013.</p>
<p>This was our second trip to Poland. Last year (2012) I went with
<a href="http://audreymroy.com" target="_blank">Audrey</a> in 2012 for a few days to present at a
software conference called <a href="http://pl.pycon.org/" target="_blank">PyCon Poland</a>. We
stayed for a few days afterwards in the eerily familiar Krakow, always
conscious that my family heritage was perhaps just hours away. You see,
my mother and father's family come from Jews who emigrated to the USA
respectively about 110 and 90 years ago. Unfortunately, for many reasons
boiling down to time, resources, and contacts I held off from exploring
my family roots, promising myself I would return one day.</p>
<p>Now I was back in Poland, with both the time, resources, and contacts to
make it possible to explore at least a portion of my family roots. This
year I would get to research and visit where my grand-father's roots in
south-eastern Poland. We blocked out some time, made various
reservations, talked to family members such as my mother and Aunt
Bernice (who <a href="http://kehilalinks.jewishgen.org/krosno/Krosnodubtrip.htm" target="_blank">wrote about her trip in
2006</a>), and
leaned heavily on the graces of close friends Tomasz 'Tomek'
Paczkowski and Alexandra 'Ola' Sendecka.</p>
<p>We knew we were in for an uphill battle researching the family. You
can't just go to a computer and search. In fact, as of the summer of
2013 there isn't really a central database of information for Jewish
ancestry - what exists is still under construction and rather
incomplete. That means you have to go and look at old documents
yourself, which are incomplete and hard to find. You see, over the
decades various documents have been destroyed by accident or war,
meaning that the old property/census/tax documents are either incomplete
or broken up into parts seperated by hours of travel.</p>
<p>Getting to Dynów was a matter of renting a car and having Tomasz drive
us from Krakow. Most of it was on a pretty new highway and we zipped
along at a rapid pace. Once we got to Rzeszow and the highway ended, we
were on the winding country roads that make up most of Poland. While
unbelievably scenic, the country roads make Poland feel much larger than
it seems; explaining why we would not be able to accomodate the requests
from various family members and friends in the USA to visit the villages
of their ancestors.</p>
<p>More about the trip is forthcoming later in the series. In the meantime,
here are some things still being edited:</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/pydanny/sets/72157635453007448/" target="_blank">Photos</a></li>
<li><a href="https://github.com/pydanny/dynow-trip-2013" target="_blank">Notes</a></li>
</ul>
<p>Published: 2013-09-09 12:00</p>
<p>Tags:
  
    <a href="/tag/europe.html">europe</a>
<a href="/tag/travel.html">travel</a>
<a href="/tag/travel%20tips%20for%20geeks.html">travel tips for geeks</a>
<a href="/tag/family.html">family</a>
<a href="/tag/friends.html">friends</a>
<a href="/tag/audrey.html">audrey</a>
</p>
<hr/>
<h3 class="ui header">Subscribe!</h3>
<p>If you read this far, you might want to follow me on <a href="https://twitter.com/pydanny">twitter</a> or <a href="https://github.com/pydanny">github</a> and subscribe via email below (I'll email you new articles when I publish them).</p>
<!-- Begin MailChimp Signup Form -->
</div>