---
date: "2012-03-28"
published: true
slug: calendar-about-nothing
tags:
  - python
  - django
time_to_read: 2
title: Calendar About Nothing
---

On October 16th, 2011, which was one hundred and sixty-four days before
I published this post, I resolved to get myself onto the Longest Streak
list of Calendar About Nothing. Today, with this blog post, I've managed to do just that - get on the
Longest Streaks.

Calendar About Nothing tracks your open project commits on
[Github](https://github.com). It tallies your total number of days,
records your longest streak, and lets you compare yourself against other
committers. The idea comes from an
[article](https://lifehacker.com/281626/jerry-seinfelds-productivity-secret?tag=softwaremotivation)
where Jerry Seinfeld says his secret to productivity is to get something
done every day, because if you skip one day then skipping another day is
easier.

# I feel a great sense of accomplishment.

The majority of those days I would like to think I did real commits. I
pledged to myself to do more than just white space tweaks or write a
script to do the work for me. I wanted to accomplish things and make a
difference. I started projects, wrote code, cleaned up old code, added
tests, documented a lot, and moved my blog here. It's been an awesome
time, and keeping my fingers constantly in projects has been eye
opening.

# I feel a great sense of relief.

I've really enjoyed this but there were days it was hard to get to the
internet or days I was busy on other things. I discovered early on my
phone was not a good interface with Github's text editor. Some days I
had no desire to code or lacked the creativity to write. Then I
remembered that my ability to work openly on Github is a gift, and I
should just do it. Now I can relax a bit and if I miss a day, it's not
such a big deal. I've made it to the Longest Streak list!

# Going for a longer streak

We'll see what happens now. I just feel happy that I've captured the
moment and made my mark on the board. I invite you to do the same.

[![image](images/6216/7024690837_0974c93f63_o.png)](https://www.flickr.com/photos/pydanny/7024690837/in/photostream/)
