---
date: '2012-02-24'
published: true
slug: pycon-australia-2011-review
tags:
- python
- pycon
- audrey
- australia
- review
time_to_read: 5
title: PyCon Australia 2011 Review
---

In June of 2011 I had the good fortune of having my then girlfriend,
Audrey Roy, now fiancee, [invited to present a keynote speech at PyCon
Australia
2011](https://pydanny.blogspot.com/2011/06/im-going-to-pycon-australia.html).

I was terribly excited for her to get that invitation, and that
excitement was compounded when they allowed me to present on
[Confessions of Joe
Developer](https://www.slideshare.net/pydanny/confessions-of-a-joe-developer%60:).

Travel is a passion of mine, and it's only been since 2007 that I've
gotten a chance to do much seeing of the world. Australia was always
this distant goal of mine, but I never thought I would get the chance to
go. Fortunately, my assumption was wrong and we landed on August 18th in
Sydney, Australia!

Audrey [wrote her own statement about the
event](https://audreyr.posterous.com/thank-you-pycon-au) right after we
were done. She's good that way. Okay then, off to my own review. This
is belated, but better late then never, right?

Conference Rooms
================

The Sydney Masonic Center was the venue and it was a really curious
building. They built it a while ago, then apparently grafted an office
building onto the top of the temple. **You have to see it to believe
it**.

The main temple room was room, interesting, and fun. The acoustics, to
my limited ear, seemed quite good. The alternative rooms for some of the
tracks were small presentation rooms, which did quite nicely except when
the organizers chose popular talks for small rooms and things
overflowed. Everyone was good natured about that and we all just worked
it out.

**Result: Great**

Speakers
========

I'm partial but I think the opening keynote by Audrey Roy about
diversity was wonderful. Mary Gardinar also talk about open source
projects trying to change the world that need our support. Raymond
Hettiger seriously delivered the goods with another version of his
amazing talk about what makes Python great. Whatever you do, go and see
it as many times as possible because he changes it each and every time.
Richard Jones' presentation on the [Zen of
Python](https://pydanny-event-notes.readthedocs.org/en/latest/PyconAU2011/zen_of_python.html)
was very solid too, and I'll use this as an opportunity to promote my
[Anti-Zen of Python](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/that).

When it came time for me to present on [Confessions of Joe
Developer](https://www.slideshare.net/pydanny/confessions-of-a-joe-developer%60:),
I finished way too early; plus me and Audrey felt the talk was not
technical enough. Even though the reception for my talk was very
positive, based on that experience and observation we ramped up the
technical content for DjangoCon US and I delivered a much stronger talk.
I want to thank the Australian Python community for being a wonderful
audience.

The [rest of the talks I saw were all quite
good](https://pydanny-event-notes.readthedocs.org/en/latest/PyconAU2011/index.html),
in fact the [one on
decorators](https://pydanny-event-notes.readthedocs.org/en/latest/PyconAU2011/decorators.html)
was incredible.

**Result: Super**

Conference Meals
================

The night before the conference, Frends/mentors Russell Keith-Magee and
Malcolm Tredennick took me to a sushi-train place and we gobbled down
some very nice raw seafood. Call me silly, but sushi on moving plates
just tastes better! Thanks guys!

In between talks they served nice little sandwiches. The coffee bar had
lovely Flat Whites and considering the quality of dairy in Australia I
was very happy with the break food.

The first night of the conference they served an amazing, amazing meal.
The lamb was like nothing I've tasted before - my best way of
describing it was "*so this is how lamb is supposed to taste*". We
also got served Pavlova, which Audrey really enjoyed.

The last evening of the conference we went out to a famous Sydney
gastropub/brewery and got kangaroo and crocodile pizza. The kangaroo was
outstanding, but the alligator wasn't my thing.

After the conference we went with Graham Dumpleton to a wonderful Dim
Sum place and I stuffed myself silly while Audrey quizzed Graham on
WSGI. I was sleepy for the rest of the day.

Pounds gained? Many.

**Result: Superb**

Parties
=======

There were some lovely dinners and hang-outs. It was incredible putting
faces to names and personalities. Everyone looked as I imagined, which
meant they looked smashing. Events tended to be lower key, which can
make for some wonderfully nice, cozy conversation.

**Result: Good**

Accommodations
==============

There was no official conference hotel so we stayed at World Hotel - in
easy walking distance of the conference center. It wasn't cheap, but
I've learned from painful experience that when you travel to a
conference, you want to spend your time at the conference, not going
to-and-from a cheap hotel five miles away.

The staff of the hotel were very nice and helpful. Unfortunately they
were working around the limitations of their building. The rooms were
really tiny and rather stuffy. Normally that isn't an issue since we
spend a lot of our time outside the room, but in this case Audrey was
polishing her talk and needed a quiet room.

**Result: Average but not the fault of the conference**

Sprints
=======

We talked with Richard Jones about PyPI authentication issues, and he
decided to go with OpenID. Personally, I would prefer OAUTH but I'll
take whatever I can get. On the behalf of the community Mark Rees
implemented OpenID on PyPI at the sprint so things like
<https://opencomparison.org> can support the community better. One goal
at PyCon 2012 is to get that working as another authentication system.

Otherwise I closed bugs and worked lintification of the project. Audrey
and a couple Australian PyLadies, Elena Williams and Jenny Nguyen,
worked some core Django documentation tickets. We didn't get as much
done as we hoped thanks to an outside distraction, but the organization
of the sprints was top-notch.

During the sprint, those crazy Australians taught us how to do a **Tim
Tam Slam**. It's rather scary and not for the faint of heart.

**Result: Great**

Overall Result
==============

The conference was run professionally. The leadership was on the ball.
The few issues that cropped up were taken care of, certainly better then
what I would have done. Thank you everyone who put it together or just
gave us a great time: Tim Ansell, Richard Jones, Nick Coghlan, Russell
Keith McGee, Graham Dumpleton, Malcolm Tredennick and many others.

Australia was amazing. The people were wonderful. I wish we had more
time to go sightseeing and relax, but we were off all too quickly. I
could write a book about the experience.

**Combined Result: Great**
